TODO.md, before:

# TODO

- [FIX] add loading component for any component using fetch
- [FEATURE] grey background for avatar when loading
- [FEATURE] if user has loaded entire tidbits, when navigating back
  to tidbits, it should load all of them. Or have lazy loading.
- [IMPROVE] Refactor to GET request for caching, once this issue has been resolved > https://github.com/nuxt/content/issues/664
- [SPIKE] Remove open sidebar in bigger screens
- [IMPROVE] update recent article use bullet list loading > https://github.com/danilowoz/create-content-loader/blob/master/src/Gallery/insertYourLoaderHere/BulletList.js
- [REFACTOR] rename tidbit_scroll to tidibt_scroll_banner, same for blog. Create scroll shared component.
- [REFACTOR] create shared folder.
- [IMPROVE] could we use this to improve filter_bar? > https://nuxtjs.org/docs/2.x/features/data-fetching#listening-to-query-string-changes
- [IMPROVE] Use DOMPurify for v-html instances > https://github.com/cure53/DOMPurify
- [REFACTOR] Namespace lib variables, similar to TW
- [IMPROVE] 404 page > https://tailwindui.com/components/marketing/feedback/404-pages
- [IMPROVE] consider adding min-height on pages to solve the jump. The loading component height only solves when navigate programatically. For initial load (ssr), the jump will still happen. Also, consider moving the section-head to the page vue files (instead of components) b/c all vue components outside of pages dir won't load right away even if static.

## Soon

- [IMPROVE] Add affiliate links.
- [FEATURE] add custom image meta from article and meta data
- [FIX] if using duration, need to make sure `transition` is included
- [IMPROVE] blog page load some list to be bigger image, so not as monotonous
- [FEATURE] calculate article length and divide space
- [IMPROVE] Add FAQ to footer (hash)
- [IMPROVE] update meta description
- [BUG] Load page button is shown even no more pages on blog and tidbit index page. There's no easy way to check if there are more results. We need a hack to query twice. A possible way to query one more and check it it exists or not.

## Doing

- [NEW] office hour page
- [FEATURE] Add RSS feed https://github.com/nuxt-community/feed-module

## Next

- [CHORE] Fix "FIXME" items and address "TODO"
- add contact links
- pictorials: add block code
- [IMPROVE] a11y: add tooltip in search when user hover on icon, it will display type of page (ie. Code Tidbit, Article, Course) OR make it as a badge

## Now

- Prepare submodule split
- Test out digital ocean
- Update article edit link

Commit message:

Add block code to pictorials for better a11y

TODO.md, after:

# TODO

- [FIX] add loading component for any component using fetch
- [FEATURE] grey background for avatar when loading
- [FEATURE] if user has loaded entire tidbits, when navigating back
  to tidbits, it should load all of them. Or have lazy loading.
- [IMPROVE] Refactor to GET request for caching, once this issue has been resolved > https://github.com/nuxt/content/issues/664
- [SPIKE] Remove open sidebar in bigger screens
- [IMPROVE] update recent article use bullet list loading > https://github.com/danilowoz/create-content-loader/blob/master/src/Gallery/insertYourLoaderHere/BulletList.js
- [REFACTOR] rename tidbit_scroll to tidibt_scroll_banner, same for blog. Create scroll shared component.
- [REFACTOR] create shared folder.
- [IMPROVE] could we use this to improve filter_bar? > https://nuxtjs.org/docs/2.x/features/data-fetching#listening-to-query-string-changes
- [IMPROVE] Use DOMPurify for v-html instances > https://github.com/cure53/DOMPurify
- [REFACTOR] Namespace lib variables, similar to TW
- [IMPROVE] 404 page > https://tailwindui.com/components/marketing/feedback/404-pages
- [IMPROVE] consider adding min-height on pages to solve the jump. The loading component height only solves when navigate programatically. For initial load (ssr), the jump will still happen. Also, consider moving the section-head to the page vue files (instead of components) b/c all vue components outside of pages dir won't load right away even if static.
- [IMPROVE] Browser will not request web fonts until it knows that they're being used on the page. And it determines by your stylesheet. One way to improve this determination more quickly is inline that usage in the head of your document.

## Soon

- [IMPROVE] Add affiliate links.
- [FEATURE] add custom image meta from article and meta data
- [FIX] if using duration, need to make sure `transition` is included
- [IMPROVE] blog page load some list to be bigger image, so not as monotonous
- [FEATURE] calculate article length and divide space
- [IMPROVE] Add FAQ to footer (hash)
- [IMPROVE] update meta description
- [BUG] Load page button is shown even no more pages on blog and tidbit index page. There's no easy way to check if there are more results. We need a hack to query twice. A possible way to query one more and check it it exists or not.

## Doing

- [NEW] office hour page
- [FEATURE] Add RSS feed https://github.com/nuxt-community/feed-module

## Next

- [CHORE] Fix "FIXME" items and address "TODO"
- add contact links
- Update article edit link
- [IMPROVE] a11y: add tooltip in search when user hover on icon, it will display type of page (ie. Code Tidbit, Article, Course) OR make it as a badge

## Now

- make subtree split
- push content to github
